Yeah, let's do a little check to make sure everything still works. Technical
wonders. Hello. Testing, one, two, three. Okay. We are there. We had finished
something, hadn't we? We had just finished your question. And his answer.
You look like you're going to say something. No, I was looking over there for
something. Go ahead. I don't like this while you're doing that. Okay. I had one
more question. On one of your novels, The Veils of Azlaroc, is that how it's
pronounced? Azlaroc? I guess so. As a reader, I would probably have to say that
would be your most hard science book. Well, I don't... I guess I wouldn't really
think of it that way because these veils are so, you know, totally lacking in
any real scientific basis.
I don't think most scientists would think was anything to do with hard science,
actually. Well, the mechanism used to explain it, what was it? There was a
pulsar and a black hole. And what was the third? The Azlaroc itself? Well, the
third body in this mutual orbit was Azlaroc itself, which is not really a
planet, but a place, partly habitable, because there were layers of gravity
reversal or something or other. Anyway, it was like a vast world. Lots of space
for people to live. And the air was good and the temperature was good. And
everything else was totally weird. Well, you convinced me. The veils and the set
up there, it sounded to me like you were... Well, one thing I like, I got to
have people walking around on the surface of a pulsar, which was a lot of fun.
When you deal with something that's as hard science as that, do you worry about
the research and being scientifically accurate part of it? No, because if I was
going to be scientifically accurate, there's no way I could get them walking
around on the surface of the pulsar or going through the black hole and popping
out again. I want it to sound as if it's scientifically accurate, but actually
what I'm doing is writing fiction.
And if the science helps it work as fiction, fine. Certainly nobody's going to
take it as a scientific theory of any kind, I hope. In other words, you see
yourself more as an entertainer. Yeah. More than somebody with... For instance,
some science fiction writers that we've talked to or interviewed sort of see
themselves as having a mission, either bringing science fiction into the
mainstream of literature or educating people in the intricacies of science or
something. But that wouldn't be your concern. Simply to tell a story would be
your... My concern is to tell a story. I think if I interest people in science
indirectly, and maybe I've achieved some good for the future of our scientific
progress, but I'm not a trained scientist, and I'm not really out to sell
science.
In the years you've been in the field, it seems to me that there's been a
tremendous boom... Yes, certainly. ...in readers and popularity of science
fiction. What would you attribute this to? Simply a larger reading public, more
authors? A larger public and probably a better educated public.
I don't know what else you could say. When you're writing, since you've written
both in fantasy and in science fiction, do you find one easier to work with than
the other? Well, I like to change back and forth, I think. I get a little tired
of doing whatever it is I'm doing after a long book, and then I like to do
something as different as I can find from that.
How do you react to the so-called new wave that has hit and possibly passed now?
Do you consider yourself in any way connected to that? No, I don't have any
special feelings about it one way or the other. I think it's... I don't think
you could call it the new wave any longer, whatever it was. It's some years ago,
I think, people were talking about this.
Would you say that science fiction is so
different from other, say, mainstream, I keep using the term mainstream
literature, that it is a separate thing and should be kept there, and that
certain qualities, you know, for instance, the characters of science fiction,
the emphasis on ideas, that it's a different kind of literature that should be
kept separate? No, I don't think so. Until just the last, what would you say,
100 years or maybe less, there was no division of literature that I know about
into mainstream and other things. It's this division that seems to me a
temporary change that should probably be abolished. Nobody... I mean,
Shakespeare uses ghosts freely. There's no... Nobody thought anything of it. It
seems at times that possibly this separation of different types of literature is
perpetuated by the publishers more than anybody else. Well, I think you have the
rack of thrilling romances and the rack of westerns and the rack of science
fiction, and...
But when the early popular books come along, they go over in the rack, it says,
bestsellers, and you have... You know, they could be... Yeah, I think it's
probably the publishers who tend to... If this is a western, it has to have
this... It should be about this long, and it should have this kind of a cover on
it, and we'll classify it this way when we send it out, and so what's science
fiction. What about some... Do you have any contemporary science fiction authors
that you particularly admire or like to read for enjoyment? Oh, there's a lot of
them I admire. Actually, reading science fiction, I don't do as much of that as
I used to. I guess I just don't have time, and there's a lot of other
interesting things, history and so on I like to read.
I don't really think I want to start naming authors, because there are many good
ones around. Do you have anything that you're working on currently? Yeah, I'm
working on a collaboration with Roger Zelazny,
and I just finished a book called Octagon I mentioned earlier, and I hope soon
to be putting together an anthology of stories having to do with science fiction
and chess and board games.
And that's what I'm working on right now. There are other ideas waiting in the
wings. What about movies? Do you... Have you had any movie rights taken up on
any of your books? No, we had nibbles a couple of times, and once we got very
close, and then the man who was going to buy it had to use his money for a
lawsuit or something or other, I think. But so far, no. Would it be fair to ask
you what of your works do you consider to be your favorites? Well, I'd probably
give you a different answer on different days. I don't know. They all look very
good when I start them, and some of them even look very good when I finish them.
And I can't... I don't think I can step aside that much and really compare them
with other people's books or even compare them among themselves.
I only had one more question. Do you keep up with science fiction movies or
science fiction and other media? Do you have any particularly favorite movies or
any comments on how Hollywood handled science fiction? Well, I thought 2001 was
very, very good, going back a few years. I didn't like Star Wars at all. I guess
I was one of the few people in the world who were just completely turned off by
that.
Nothing else springs to mind immediately. Okay. That's about all I would have. I
don't have anything else to say. Yeah. Is there anything you want to add to get
on tape? Is there anything you want to say for posterity? Hello to all the
people in the Permian Basin. Okay.